# Test Plan - Final

**Team 115**:

## 1. Testing Strategy
 
### 1.1 Overall strategy

* Automated JUnit tests were carried out for several of the functionalities as recorded in [ExampleUnitTest.java](https://github.gatech.edu/gt-omscs-se-2019fall/6300Fall19Team115/blob/master/GroupProject/Words6300/app/src/test/java/edu/gatech/seclass/words6300/ExampleUnitTest.java).

* Manual tests were performed for unit testing, integration testing, and system testing. The test reports found in *Section 2* of this test plan will demonstrate the previously mentioned.

* Unit Tests will be run by the developer for the modules they are in charge of and the testing reports for those modules will be prepared by the same person. Surabhi’s test result will be verified by Esther, Esther’s test result will be verified by Ling, and Ling’s test result will be verified by Surabhi.

* Esther will be responsible for the Integration Tests related to **settings** function and Ling will be responsible for the Integration Tests related to **statistics**. Esther’s test result will be verified by Ling and Ling’s test result will be verified by Surabhi.

* Surabhi will be responsible for the System Test and for preparing a report for it. Esther will verify the results of the System Test.

* Regression test will be run when any changes are made in the application development and the person making the change will be responsible to do the test and prepare a report for it. Again, Surabhi’s test result will be verified by Esther, Esther’s test result will be verified by Ling, and Ling’s test result will be verified by Surabhi.

 
### 1.2 Test Selection

#### Unit and Integration Testing:

* Black-Box Testing will be used for Unit Testing and Integration Testing. The test cases will be selected according to the requirement to test all functions of each unit. All requirements will be covered and tested at least once. In addition, boundary condition will also be tested. 

#### System Testing:

* Black-box testing will be used for system testing. Usability Test, Load Test, and Functional Test will be used for System Test. Usability Test will be used to test the user’s ease to use the application, flexibility in handling controls and the ability of the system to meet its objectives. Load test will be used to test the performance of the application in real-life scenario (production). Functional Test will be used to check any possible missing functions.

#### Regression Testing:

 * Functional testing will be done for regression testing. Test will be made on the function affected by any change during the development.
 
 
### 1.3 Adequacy Criterion
 
* Adequacy criterion is satisfied if all the tests are passed and all test obligations in the criterion are satisfied by at least one of the test cases in the test suite. All requirements will be tested by positive cases to make sure that the requirement is met. Negative cases will also be tested if applicable for the boundary condition and error message. At least one positive case will be tested for each requirement and at least one negative test will be tested for each error message and boundary condition. 
 
### 1.4 Bug Tracking
 
* Surabhi will be responsible for fixing the bugs in the *Game Development*, Esther will be responsible for fixing the bugs in *Settingw Development* and *Database Construction*, and Ling will be responsible for fixing the bugs in *Statistics Development*. Bugs occured in each area will be tracked and fixed as completely as possible before the final code push to Github.


### 1.5 Technology

**Manual Test will be used in all Tests.**

 
## 2. Test Cases

### Black Box Testing
Test ID | Tester | Main Feature | Test Purpose | Test Step | Expected Result | Actual Result | Pass/Fail | Verifyer
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
1.1 | Ling Yao | Main Menu | Verify the bottom of the Play Game works | Click on the Play Game Bottom | App change to Game View |App change to Game View | Pass | Surabhi
1.2 | Esther Rios | Main Menu | Verify the functionality of the settings button within the main menu. | Tap the *Settings* button in the *Menu View*. | The app will navigate to the *Settings View*. | Redirected to the *Settings View*. | Pass | Ling
1.3 | Ling Yao | Main Menu | Verify the bottom of the Statistics works within the main menu | Tap the *Statistics* Bottom in the *Menu View*.| The app will navigate to the *Statistics View*. |Redirected to the *Statistics View*. | Pass | Surabhi
2.1 | Esther Rios | Settings | Verify the functionality of the letter dropdown within the *Settings* view. | Tap on dropdown menu. | All alphabet letters show in the dropdown. | All alphabet letters can be seen in the dropdown. | Pass | Ling
2.2 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm correct functionality of the **Save** button within the *Settings View*. | Add invalid numeric values to the *MaxTurn* field (1001), *Count* field (21), and *Points* field (101). | All fields will show error message saying "Invalid Input" and an error message will pop up. | Incorrect fields displayed error message and pop up was visible with an error. Values cannot be saved. | Pass | Ling
2.3 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm correct functionality of the **Save** button within the *Settings View*. | Add invalid values to the *MaxTurn* field ("team115"), *Count* field ("2,090"), and *Points* field ("a"). | None of the fields can be modified since the keyboard only prompts the user for numeric characters. Furthermore, paste-ing alphabetic or any non-numeric character will not do anything - the field stays empty. | None of the fields allow to type in or paste characters that are not numeric.  | Pass | Ling
2.4 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm correct functionality of the **Save** button within the *Settings View*. | Add invalid values to the *MaxTurn* field (0), *Count* field (0), and *Points* field (2000). | All fields will show error message saying "Invalid Input" and an error message will pop up. | Incorrect fields displayed error message and pop up was visible with an error. Values cannot be saved. | Pass | Ling
2.5 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm correct functionality of the **Save** button within the *Settings View*. | Add valid value to the *MaxTurn* field (40) and invalid values to *Count* field (21) and *Points* field (787). | *Count* and *Points* fields will show error message saying "Invalid Input" and an error message will pop up not allowing to save. | Incorrect fields displayed error message and pop up was visible with an error. | Pass | Ling
2.6 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm correct functionality of the **Save** button within the *Settings View*. | Add valid value to the *Count* field (5)  and *Points* field (10) for a specific letter and an invalid values to *MaxTurn* field (0). | *MaxTurn* will show error message saying "Invalid Input" and an error message will pop up not allowing to save. | Incorrect fields displayed error message and pop up was visible with an error. | Pass | Ling
2.7 | Esther Rios | Settings-Menu | Confirm nothing is saved when **save** button is clicked after incorrect values. | Enter incorrect values in any or all of the input fields as was demonstrated in tests 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, and 2.6 tap on save, tap on the back button (takes you to the main menu), and then tap again on the *settings* button. | No newly entered input values will be saved. | No saving or alteration of data. | Pass | Ling
2.8 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm nothing is saved when **save** button is clicked after incorrect values. | Enter incorrect values in any or all of the input fields as was demonstrated in tests 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, and 2.6, tap on save, and then tap of the dropdown button, change letter, and then change letter yet again to the original letter. | No newly entered input values in the original letter will be saved. *Max # of Turns* will not be saved in the case it was altered. | No saving or alteration of data. | Pass | Ling
2.9 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm changes are saved when **save** button is clicked after correct values. | (Starting scenario: Letters must be with the default English Scrabble letter count and point.) Enter correct values in all of the input fields (MaxTurns = 30 and Count = 5, Points = 8 for letter 'A'), tap on save, tap on dropdown to change letter, and then revert back to the letter for which the modifications were made (letter A). | A notification indicated that changes were saved should pop up. After changing the letter and then reverting back to the previously modified letter A, it shall contain the new changes. The *Max # of Turns* shall also be updated, if modified. | New information was saved. | Pass | Ling
2.10 | Esther Rios | Settings | Confirm changes are saved when **save** button is clicked after correct values. | (Starting scenario: Letters must be with the default English Scrabble letter count and point.) Enter correct values in all of the input fields (MaxTurns = 1 and Count = 20, Points = 100 for letter 'B'), tap on save, return to *Main Menu*, and then go back to the *Settings View*. | A notification indicated that changes were saved should pop up. After going to the **Menu** and returning to the *Settings View*, it shall contain the new changes. The *Max # of Turns* shall also be updated, if modified. | New information was saved. | Pass | Ling
2.11 | Esther Rios | Settings | **Settings** instructions on **Settings View**. | User taps the **Instructions** button represented by a "?" icon. | The game instructions will be displayed and an "ok" or "cancel" button takes the user back in focus to the **Settings View**. | The instructions are displayed and after tapping "ok"/"cancel", you are able to see the full **Settings View** and where you left off. | Pass | Ling
2.12 | Esther Rios | Settings - Game | (Starting scenario: Letters must be with the default English Scrabble letter count and point.) Modifying settings while a game is in process. | Leave a game and modify the settings to the following valid values: **5** max turns, letter **B** in the dropdown, **5** count, and **10** points. When you click the **Save Button**, a notification will say that the new values are saved but they will be valid on the next new game and will not replace the existing settings for the game in process.| After leaving a game in process, changing the values, and performing the button click to save the changes, I clicked on the **Play Game** button in the main menu. It will ask if I would like to continue with the previous game or start a new one. When chosen to continue with the old one, I proceeded to verify the status in the database. | The previous game was still in process; therefore, a new ID was not created with new game information. Also, the new settings data was updated in the SharedPreferences, but did not affect any information or tables of the current game in process. | Pass | Ling
2.13 | Esther Rios | Settings - Game | Confirm latest settings take place when a new game is started. | (Starting scenario: Letters must be with the default English Scrabble letter count and point.) Change **Max # of Turns** to 20 in the *Settings View* and start a new game. After playing for the **Max # of Turns** recently set to, the game is supposed to end. | Changed the **Max # of Turns** and then started a new game. | When verifying the DB, a new game id was created with reseted values and the settings table for the same id reflect the latest settings, including the newly changed **Max # of Turns**. After playing the game up to the **Max # of Turns**, the game ends. | Pass | Ling
2.14 | Esther Rios | Settings - Game | Confirm latest *saved* settings take place when a new game is started. | Go to the **Settings View** and change the various fields, but don't tap on the **save** button. Start a new game and the new modified changes are not supposed to take place. | Modified settings - but did not tap on the **save** button - and started a new game. | The database records did not reflect the new game taking place with the last changes performed since the **save** button was never clicked or tapped. | Pass | Ling
3.1 | Esther Rios | Return | Verify the functionality of the play game button within the main menu. | Tap the *Play Game* button in the *Menu View*. | The app will navigate to the *Return View* if a game was left unfinished; otherwise, will navigate to the *Game View*. In this case, no game was left unfinished, so it will redirect the user to the *Game View* to start a new game from scratch. | New game was started. | Pass | Ling
3.2 | Esther Rios | Return | Verify the functionality of the play game button within the main menu. | Leave a game unfinished and record the score. Go back to the main menu and tap the *Play Game* button in the *Menu View*. | The app will navigate to the *Return View* if a game was left unfinished; otherwise, it will navigate to the *Game View*. In this case, a game was left unfinished, so it will redirect the user to the *Return View* and display the player's last score before leaving the last active game. | Prompted to select if wanted to continue the last game or not. The score before leaving the game is being displayed. | Pass | Ling
3.3 | Esther Rios | Return | Corroborate correct functionality of the *Return View.* | The user taps the "Yes" button to return to the last saved game. | The user will be redirected to the "Game View" and will show the previously left game score, turn number, board and rack arrangement, and pool status. | User was redirected to "Game Mode" with previous visible tiles, score, and turn number. | Pass | Ling
3.4 | Esther Rios | Return | Corroborate correct functionality of the *Return View.* | The user taps the "No" button, to start a new game from scratch. | The user will be redirected to the "Game View" and will show a score value and a turn count of 0. | User was redirected to "Game Mode" as a new game. (DB Table reflects the previous game as ended and a new id containing reseted information in the adjunct columns such as **turn count** and **score**.) | Pass | Ling
4.1 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Check word cannot be entered repeatly | Enter same word 2 times in the same game. Also tested in the [JUnit Testing](https://github.gatech.edu/gt-omscs-se-2019fall/6300Fall19Team115/blob/master/GroupProject/Words6300/app/src/test/java/edu/gatech/seclass/words6300/ExampleUnitTest.java) | Error message will be shown as "This word was already used in this game" | Error message indicating word cannot be entered repeatedly was shown as "This word was already used in this game". | Pass | Esther
4.2 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify that the score will be calculated correctly when entering a valid word. | Entered word "FAN" and set the scores in the settings for F as 1, A as 2 and N as 3 | Enter word FAN, check the score of the word in the system and it should be 1+2+3 =6 | Score stored in the system and shown on the screen matched the score manually calculated, which is 6. | Pass | Esther
4.3 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify extra 10 point be added if the pool of letter is empty, and isEmpty(), gameFinished() works | Played the game until the pool is empty and watch how the score changes| Score stored in the system increases by 10 points after the pool of letters is empty, and the game ends | As expected, the total score(23 points) was incremented by 10 points to 33 points when the pool became empty| Pass | Esther
4.4 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Check if the tiles used from the rack are replaced from the pool of letters | Enter word, check newly replaced rack letters are retrieved from the pool, and letterNumber in the letter is reduced after it | Newly replaced rack letters are taken from the pool, and letterNumber in the letter is reduced after it | After a turn, all used rack letters change and the pool count for the newly taken letters reduces. F,N and G were the rack letters swapped in a turn, and K, B,P were retrieved from the pool. The letter count for available letters in the pool reduced by 1 for K, B and P. | Pass | Esther
4.5 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify checkIfWordHasBoardLetter() works for positive case| Enter a word made up of one or more letter from the players’rack of letter, and one from the board | Since the word has board letter, the function does not error out | Entered a word "SDP" by choosing 'S' from board and 'D','P' from rack. Since the word has 'S' as board letter, it was accepted as a valid word for the game. | Pass | Esther
4.6 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify checkIfValidWord() works for negative case| Enter a word only made up of letters from the board | Error message will be shown when multiple letetrs are clicked from board | Selected a board letter 'A', then tried to select another board letter 'N', but a notification error message occured that says "Only one board letter can be selected". An automated JUnit test was also added to check this functionality in [ExampleUnitTest.java](https://github.gatech.edu/gt-omscs-se-2019fall/6300Fall19Team115/blob/master/GroupProject/Words6300/app/src/test/java/edu/gatech/seclass/words6300/ExampleUnitTest.java) | Pass | Esther
4.7 | Surabhi Chembra | Game |  Verify checkIfWordHasBoardLetter() works for negative case| Enter a word only made up of letters from the rack | Error message will be shown that says a word needs one board letter | Entered three rack letters A,N and M and clicked on Form Word. An error occured that said "Board letter should be included". An automated JUnit test was also added to check this functionality in [ExampleUnitTest.java](https://github.gatech.edu/gt-omscs-se-2019fall/6300Fall19Team115/blob/master/GroupProject/Words6300/app/src/test/java/edu/gatech/seclass/words6300/ExampleUnitTest.java)  | Pass | Esther
4.8 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify if board takes the letter for the next turn from the rack letters used in the word formed.| Enter a word made up of on board letter and several rack letters, and confirm that the replacing letter for the chosen board letter is one among the rack letters in the word formed. | Create a valid word and click on form word. The letter replacing the chosen board letter should be one from the rack letters used in the word formed | Chose 'A' from board, 'R' and 'M' from the rack, and clicked on 'Form Word'. The chosen board letter 'A' was replaced by 'R' from the rack. | Pass | Esther
4.9 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify checkifValidWord() works for negative case| Enter a word contains letter outside of the board and rack | Enter a word outside of board and rack to the word formation area and it should give an error notification that indicates that only board/rack letters can be used for forming a word | The word formation area in UI takes inputs only from the board and the rack, because each word inputted into the word is by clicking on a board letter or a rack letter. Hence the chances of choosing a letter outside of board and rack, are elimiated by the UI design itself. | Pass | Esther
4.10 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify swap() works for positive case | Select the letters to swap from the rack and click on 'Swap letters' button | Rack and Pool are updated accordingly | The swapped letters were replaced by new letters from the pool. The count of letters drawn from the pool to replace the rack letters decreased accordingly | Pass | Esther
4.11 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify gameFinished()  works for positive case| multiplicity of Turn (maxTurns) is changed to maxTurns  | Game ends, and all statistics are updated. | Set the maxTurns =5 in Settings. Started playing the game and when the turn count touched 5, the game got over and the final score was displayed in the "Finished Game screen" | Pass | Esther
4.12 | Surabhi Chembra | Game | Verify swap() works for negative case | Select the letters to swap from the rack, along with one board letter, and click on 'Swap letters' button | The board letter cannot be swapped, so the operation should not occur. | When a board letter was chosen and then clicked on 'Swap letters', an error message appeared on the screen that says "Cannot swap board letters" and did not allow the swap operation to happen | Pass | Esther
5.1 | Ling Yao | Score #Statistics | Verify the bottom of the Score Stats works |Tap on *Score Stats*| The app will navigate to the *Score Statistics View*.  | Redirected to the *Score Statistics View*. |Pass| Surabhi
5.2 | Ling Yao | Score #Statistics /Game | Verify in game score statistics, the score will be shown in descending order by the final game score. |Set max turn to 5. Play 3 games and check score statistics. |Letter shows in ascending order by number of times played and the number is correct. blanks are shown on the rest line|Shown as expected |Pass | Surabhi
5.3 | Ling Yao | Score #Statistics /Game | Verify in game score statistics, the score will be shown in descending order by the final game score. | Set max turn to 5. Play 9 games and check score statistics. |Letter shows in ascending order by number of times played and the number is correct and all line shows numbers.|Shown as expected |Pass | Surabhi
5.4 | Ling Yao | Score #Statistics /Game | Verify in game score statistics, the score will be shown in descending order by the final game score. | Set max turn to 5. Play 11 games and check score statistics. |Letter shows in ascending order by number of times played and the number is correct by the last game|Shown as expected |Pass | Surabhi
5.5 | Ling Yao | Single Score Statistics | Verify in single score statistics, the score, max turn number and letter settings of that game will be shown. Verify in score statistics, the turn number is shown correctly| Set max turn number to 100, play 2 turns and end the game. Go to score statistics and tap on the game just played. Go back to score statistics and tap on the previous game before changing settings.| 2 turns played is shown on game score statistics view, and 100 max turn setting is shown on single score statistics on the last game played. Letter setting, score for that game is shown correctly for different games.  |Shown as expected|Pass| Surabhi
5.6 | Ling Yao |Letter Statistics | Confirm the list of letters are shown in ascending order by the number of times played. Total number of time played, traded and percentage of the letter is used out of the total number of times been drawn is shown correctly. |After run the test case from 5.1 to 5.5, Tap on *Letter Stats*.| Letters are shown as required.  |Shown as expected|Pass| Surabhi
5.7 | Ling Yao | Word Bank| Verify the number times the word played is stored and displayed correctly. | After run the test case from 5.1 to 5.5, run another game. Form one word 3 times and form another word twice. Tap on *Word Bank*.| Correct number of time the word played is shown correctly | Shown as expected|Pass| Surabhi
5.8 | Ling Yao | Word Bank| Verify the list of the words are shown starting from the most recently played | After run the test case from 5.7, tap on *Word Bank*.| Words are shown starting from the most recently played | Shown as expected|Pass| Surabhi
6.1 | Esther Rios | Finished Game | **Finished Game** view after player has finished game when pool is emptied. | After emptying the pool, the user is redirected to the **Finished Game** view. | The user will be able to see a message that explains the reason for winning/finishing (where in this case it would be "Pool is empty!") the score before any extra points, the 10 extra points for emptying the pool, and the final score. | The "Pool is Empty!" message is displayed with an explanation of the points distribution. | Pass | Ling
6.2 | Esther Rios | Finished Game | **Finished Game** view after player has finished game when maximum number of turns has been reached. | After maxing out the total number of turns, the user is redirected to the **Finished Game** view. | The user will be able to see a message that explains the reason for winning/finishing (where in this case it would be "Maximum # of turns has been reached!") the score before any extra points, 0 extra points since the pool was not emptied, and the final score. | The "Maximum # of turns has been reached!" message is displayed with an explanation of the points distribution. | Pass | Ling
6.3 | Esther Rios | Finished Game | Testing **Return to Menu** button. | When being taken to the **Finished Game** view, a button that says "Return to Menu" allows users to go back to the **Menu View**. | When the button is tapped, the user is taken back to the **Main View**. | After tapping the **Return to Menu** button in the **Return View**, the user was redirected to the *SingleScrabbler Main Menu*. | Pass | Ling
6.4 | Esther Rios | Finished Game | Instructions button testing within the **Return View**. | Click on the "?" icon at the top right. | When the button is tapped, a popup is brought up with instructions on the Game and how to finish it, particularly the piece of information on how to obtain the 10 extra points. | A popup appears with instructions. It contains an "ok"/"cancel" button that when clicked brings you back to the **Finished Game** view focus. | Pass | Ling
6.5 | Esther Rios | Game - Finished Game - Menu - Return View | Confirm that when tapping on "Play Game", a new game starts after having finished a game. | After a player finishes a game and taps on "Return to Menu", the user has the option to tap on **Play Game** to play a new game. The user will be taken to the **Game View**. | Was prompted to a new game when clicking/tapping on the **Play Game** button. | When verifying the DB a new **game id** was created with reseted values, the pool was populated with the latest setting's SharedPreferences, and the previous game contains the **FinishedGame** column for the previous game id as *True* or *1* (within the **Game Table**). | Pass | Ling
7.1 | Surabhi Chembra | System test - Load test | The app installation and the user interface operations should happen within reasonable time | Install the app and check the time required for installation and the time difference between request and response | The app installation happens in 30 seconds and the time lag between any UI action and response is negligible, thus making the UI very responsive | Results as expected | Pass | Esther
7.2 | Surabhi Chembra | System test - Functionality test | The functionalities listed as per the project are to be confirmed to be implemented | Unit test each functionality and make sure they are working as per the requirements. the JUnit tests are recorded in [ExampleUnitTest.java](https://github.gatech.edu/gt-omscs-se-2019fall/6300Fall19Team115/blob/master/GroupProject/Words6300/app/src/test/java/edu/gatech/seclass/words6300/ExampleUnitTest.java) | All the functionalities work as expected in both manual test and JUnit tests | Results as expected | Pass | Esther
7.3 | Surabhi Chembra | System test - Usability test | The SingleScrabbler game is designed with the purpose of enabling the app to play the designed game within a responsive and intuitive UI| Click/Tap on different buttons in the User Interface and confirm the responses are fast and correct| The user actions are recorded, well-responded to and the responses are as expected with no delay | Results as expected | Pass | Esther

